# countserver: demo of Rust parallel/async
Bart Massey 2020

This is a little demo that provides client and server
implementations of a counter: concurrent clients grab unique
counter values from the server.

You will need a recent nightly Rust toolchain to build and
run this. It is known to work on `x86_64` with the channel
in the `rust-toolchain.toml` file. Just `cargo build
--release`.  You will probably want to run the resulting
binary as `target/release/countserver` for ease of arguments
and for timing.

Supplied modes:

* Count Servers (`--server`)

    * `--seq`: Sequential count server.

    * `--thread`: Concurrent count server using many threads that
      access a counter.

    * `--async`: Concurrent count server using async accesses to
      an atomic counter.

* Count Clients (`--client`)

    * `--seq`: Sequential count client.

    * `--thread`: Concurrent count client using many threads that
      access a counter.

    * `--async`: Concurrent count client using async accesses to
      collect counts.

    The `-n` flag specifies the total number of transactions
    to complete. The default is 100K.

The `-m` thread specifies a target level of parallelism for
some clients and servers. The default is about half the
number of parallel threads Rust believes is available:
typically this is the number of threads on the host machine.

Async client and server will use Tokio by default. To use
`async-std`, use the `--alt` argument.

Sequential server will use a faster amortized counter by
default. To use an atomic counter, use the `--alt` argument.

Threaded server will use an amortized counter by default. To
use an atomic counter, use the `--alt` argument.  They are
roughly the same speed.

## Notes

On my modern Linux box I need to run these things as root to
get decent performance. I also occasionally need to

    sysctl net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies=1

to get SYN cookies turned off on localhost. (Sigh. Working
on reporting this.) Don't forget to undo this when you're done!

Various optimizations that have been tried:

* Make the seq server use an amortized counter construction
  instead of an atomic to avoid formatting cost: roughly 20%
  speedup, kept.

* Make the thread server use amortized counter: same speed, ditched.

* Make the async server use amortized counter: roughly 3Ã—
  slowdown, ditched.

* Replace the read-parse-print stupidity in the clients with
  simply writing the received bytes. Some speedup, kept.

* Use `tokio::io::stdout` in the async client. Sadly, since
  this is not locked it's not guaranteed to work reliably
  100% of the time. Replaced with `spawn_blocking` writes to
  `std::io::stdout` for about a 20% slowdown, but correctness.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to Josh Triplett for the scoped-threads server and
for other help with this.

## License

This work is made available under the "Copyleft Next v0.3.1
license." Please see the file `LICENSE.txt` in this
distribution for license terms.
